A: Aberration, Abhorrent, Abnegation, Abrogate, Abscond, Abstemious, Abstruse, Accolade, Acerbic, Acquiesce, Adumbrate, Aegis, Alacrity, Altruism, Amalgamate, Ambivalent, Ameliorate, Anathema, Antediluvian, Antipathy, Aplomb, Apostate, Approbation, Arbiter, Arcane, Arduous, Artifice, Ascetic, Assiduous, Attenuate, Augment, Auspicious, Avarice, Axiomatic

B: Baleful, Banal, Bellicose, Belligerent, Benevolent, Bequeath, Bombastic, Brusque, Bucolic, Burgeon

C: Cacophony, Callous, Candor, Capitulate, Capricious, Castigate, Catharsis, Caustic, Cerebral, Chicanery, Churlish, Circumlocution, Clandestine, Clemency, Coalesce, Cogent, Commensurate, Compendium, Concomitant, Conflagration, Congenial, Convoluted, Copious, Corpulent, Coterie, Credulous, Crestfallen, Cryptic, Cupidity, Cursory, Cynosure

D: Dearth, Debauchery, Debilitate, Decadence, Decimate, Defenestration, Defunct, Degenerate, Deleterious, Delineate, Demagogue, Demeanor, Denigrate, Denouement, Despot, Diatribe, Dichotomy, Diffidence, Dilettante, Dirge, Disparate, Dispassionate, Disseminate, Dogmatic, Dolorous, Dubious, Duplicity

E: Ebullient, Eclectic, Edifice, Efficacious, Effulgent, Egregious, Eloquent, Elucidate, Emollient, Empirical, Enervate, Enigmatic, Ennui, Ephemeral, Epiphany, Equanimity, Esoteric, Ethereal, Euphemism, Evanescent, Exacerbate, Excoriate, Exculpate, Execrable, Exegesis, Exorbitant, Expatriate, Expiate, Extirpate, Extraneous

F: Facetious, Factious, Fastidious, Fatuous, Feckless, Fecund, Fetid, Foment, Frenetic, Fractious, Fulminate, Furtive

G: Garrulous, Germane, Glib, Grandiloquent, Gratuitous, Gregarious, Guileless, Gustatory, Guttural

H: Harangue, Harbinger, Hedonism, Hegemony, Hermetic, Histrionic, Homogeneous, Hubris, Hyperbole, Hypocrisy

I: Idiosyncrasy, Ignominious, Illicit, Immutable, Impassive, Impecunious, Imperturbable, Impervious, Impetuous, Importunate, Impugn, Inchoate, Ineffable, Inexorable, Ingratiate, Iniquity, Inscrutable, Insipid, Insouciant, Intransigent, Inure, Invective, Invidious, Irascible, Itinerant, Juxtapose

J: Jettison, Jingoism, Juggernaut, Juncture, Jurisprudence

K: Kowtow, Kudos

L: Labyrinthine, Laconic, Largesse, Lassitude, Lethargy, Levity, Licentious, Litigious, Lugubrious

M: Machination, Magnanimous, Malediction, Malfeasance, Manifest, Maudlin, Mendacious, Mercurial, Meticulous, Mollify, Moribund, Multifarious, Munificent, Myopic

N: Nefarious, Neophyte, Nihilism, Noxious, Nugatory

O: Obfuscate, Obsequious, Odious, Onerous, Opaque, Opprobrium, Ostensible, Ostracize, Overweening

P: Palimpsest, Palliate, Panacea, Panegyric, Paragon, Pariah, Parsimonious, Peccadillo, Pecuniary, Pellucid, Penchant, Penurious, Perfidious, Perfunctory, Peripatetic, Perspicacious, Pervasive, Petulant, Phlegmatic, Pithy, Platitude, Plethora, Polemic, Portent, Prevaricate, Probity, Proclivity, Prodigal, Profundity, Prolific, Propensity, Propinquity, Propitious, Protean, Pugnacious, Punctilious, Pusillanimous

Q: Quagmire, Querulous, Quixotic, Quotidian

R: Rapacious, Raze, Recalcitrant, Recant, Recidivism, Redolent, Redoubtable, Refulgent, Relegate, Remonstrate, Reprobate, Repugnant, Rescind, Resplendent, Restive, Reticent, Retrograde, Rhapsody, Rife, Risible, Ruminate

S: Sagacious, Salient, Sanguine, Sardonic, Sartorial, Scurrilous, Sedulous, Semblance, Sententious, Serendipity, Sinecure, Sinuous, Soporific, Specious, Spurious, Stentorian, Stultify, Subterfuge, Supercilious, Surreptitious, Sycophant

T: Taciturn, Tangential, Tantamount, Temerity, Tenuous, Terse, Timorous, Trepidation, Truculent, Tumultuous

U: Ubiquitous, Umbrage, Unctuous, Unfettered, Unscrupulous, Untoward, Upbraid, Usurp

V: Vacillate, Vagary, Vapid, Vehement, Venal, Venerate, Verbose, Verisimilitude, Vex, Vicissitude, Vilify, Visceral, Vitriolic, Vociferous, Volatile, Volition, Voluminous, Voracious

W: Waffle, Waft, Wanton, Wary, Whimsical, Wistful, Writhe

X: Xenophobia, Xeric, Xyloid

Y: Yearn, Yoke, Yowl

Z: Zenith, Zephyr, Zest

DNA
Gene
Chromosome
RNA
Allele
Genotype
Phenotype
Dominant
Recessive
Homozygous
Heterozygous
Mutation
Genetic code
Genetic variation
Genetic disorder
Heredity
Inheritance
Mendelian
Punnett square
Genetic engineering
Recombinant DNA
Transcription
Translation
Codon
Anticodon
Genome
Genetic mapping
Genetic counseling
Genetic testing
Gene therapy
Epigenetics
Genetic recombination
Linkage
Gene expression
RNA interference
DNA replication
Evolutionary genetics
Population genetics
Molecular genetics
Quantitative genetics

Serendipity
Ethereal
Luminous
Petrichor
Ephemeral
Sonorous
Bucolic
Eloquence
Aurora
Resplendent
Tranquility
Mellifluous
Effervescent
Ineffable
Halcyon
Serenity
Epiphany
Enchanting
Iridescent
Vellichor
Languorous
Vivacious
Solitude
Enrapture
Idyllic
Quintessential
Panacea
Surreptitious
Sonnet
Dalliance
Incandescent
Symmetry
Cascade
Incantation
Luminaries
Epitome
Tintinnabulation
Halcyon
Efflorescence
Zephyr

Fitness
Gene flow
Genetic drift
Convergent evolution
Divergent evolution
Homology
Vestigial structure
Adaptive radiation
Artificial selection
Phylogenetics
Molecular clock
Cladistics
Macroevolution
Microevolution
Extinction
Punctuated equilibrium
Gradualism
Biogeography
Cambrian explosion
Hominid
Archaeopteryx
Genetic bottleneck
Hybridization
Mimicry
Coevolution
Evolutionary psychology
Eukaryote
Prokaryote

Nucleolus
Mitochondria
Ribosome
Golgi apparatus
Endoplasmic reticulum
Chloroplast
Cell membrane
Cell wall
Cytoplasm
Nucleus
Vacuole
Lysosome
Centriole
Cilia
Flagellum
Chromosome
Chromatin
Centrosome
Spindle apparatus
Microtubule
Microfilament
Intermediate filament
Extracellular matrix
Plasma membrane
Cytoplasmic membrane
Plasma membrane
Nuclear envelope
Phospholipid bilayer
Cytoskeleton
Peroxisome
Endosome
Glycocalyx
Synaptic vesicle
Synapse
Dendrite
Axon
Myelin sheath
Node of Ranvier
Neurotransmitter
Synaptic cleft

Ailurophile - 猫咪爱好者 (māomī àihàozhě) - A cat lover.
Apricity - 冬日暖阳 (dōng rì nuǎn yáng) - The warmth of the sun in winter.
Callipygian - 美臀的 (měi tún de) - Having well-shaped buttocks.
Clinomania - 睡觉痴迷 (shuì jiào chī mí) - Excessive desire to stay in bed.
Defenestration - 把某人扔出窗外 (bǎ mǒurén rēng chū chuāng wài) - The act of throwing someone out of a window.
Desideratum - 渴望之物 (kěwàng zhī wù) - Something that is needed or wanted.
Ephemeral - 短暂的 (duǎnzàn de) - Lasting for a very short time.
Epistemology - 认识论 (rènshí lùn) - The theory of knowledge.
Eremite - 隐士 (yǐnshì) - A hermit or recluse, especially one under a religious vow.
Exacerbate - 使恶化 (shǐ èhuà) - To make a problem or situation worse.
Frisson - 紧张感 (jǐnzhāng gǎn) - A sudden strong feeling of excitement or fear.
Futz - 闲逛 (xián guàng) - To waste time or busy oneself aimlessly.
Gambrinous - 酒醉的 (jiǔ zuì de) - Being full of beer.
Hiraeth - 无法回到的家乡 (wúfǎ huí dào de jiāxiāng) - A homesickness for a home to which you cannot return, a home which maybe never was; the nostalgia, the yearning, the grief for the lost places of your past.
Impignorate - 典当或抵押 (diǎndāng huò dǐyā) - To pawn or mortgage something.
Ineffable - 难以形容的 (nán yǐ xíngróng de) - Too great or extreme to be expressed or described in words.
Limerence - 热恋状态 (rè liàn zhuàngtài) - The state of being infatuated with another person.
Mellifluous - 流畅动听的 (liúchàng dòngtīng de) - Sweet or musical; pleasant to hear.
Nudiustertian - 前天的 (qiántiān de) - Pertaining to the day before yesterday.
Obscurantism - 模糊主义 (móhu zhǔyì) - The practice of deliberately preventing the facts or full details of something from becoming known.
Obfuscate - 使模糊 (shǐ móhú) - To render obscure, unclear, or unintelligible.
Onomatopoeia - 拟声法 (nǐshēng fǎ) - The formation of a word from a sound associated with what is named.
Ostentatious - 炫耀的 (xuànyào de) - Characterized by vulgar or pretentious display; designed to impress or attract notice.
Palimpsest - 再次使用的书写材料 (zàicì shǐyòng de shūxiě cáiliào) - A manuscript or piece of writing material on which later writing has been superimposed on effaced earlier writing.
Paraprosdokian - 意外收场的修辞手法 (yìwài shōuchǎng de xiūcí shǒufǎ) - A figure of speech in which the latter part of a sentence or phrase is surprising or unexpected.
Penumbra - 半影 (bàn yǐng) - The partially shaded outer region of the shadow cast by an opaque object.
Petrichor - 雨后泥土的清香 (yǔ hòu nítǔ de qīngxiāng) - A pleasant smell that frequently accompanies the first rain after a long period of warm, dry weather.
Pluviophile - 爱雨者 (ài yǔ zhě) - A lover of rain; someone who finds joy and peace of mind during rainy days.
Quintessential - 精华的 (jīnghuá de) - Representing the most perfect or typical example of a quality or class.
Quixotic - 不切实际的 (bù qièshíjì de) - Exceedingly idealistic; unrealistic and impractical.
Recalcitrant - 反抗的 (fǎnkàng de) - Having an obstinately uncooperative attitude towards authority or discipline.
Serendipity - 机缘巧合 (jīyuán qiǎohé) - The occurrence and development of events by chance in a happy or beneficial way.
Susurrus - 低语声 (dīyǔ shēng) - Whispering, murmuring, or rustling.
Tenebrous - 昏暗的 (hūn'àn de) - Dark, shadowy, or obscure.
Tintinnabulation - 钟声 (zhōng shēng) - The ringing or sounding of bells.
Ubiquitous - 无所不在的 (wúsuǒbùzài de) - Present, appearing, or found everywhere.
Uhtceare - 黎明前醒来并担忧的时刻 (lí míng qián xǐng lái bìng dānyōu de shíkè) - The act of lying awake before dawn and worrying.
Unputdownable - 令人着迷的 (lìng rén zháomí de) - So captivating or engrossing as to compel reading.
Vellichor - 旧书店散发的神秘愁绪 (jiù shū diàn sàn fā de shénmì chóu xù) - The strange wistfulness of used bookstores, which are filled with thousands of old books you’ll never have time to read, each of which is itself locked in its own era, bound and dated and papered over like an old room the author abandoned years ago, a hidden annex littered with thoughts left just as they were on the day they were captured.
Welter - 一团糟 (yī tuán zāo) - A confused mass or jumble.
Xerophyte - 干旱植物 (gānhàn zhíwù) - A plant adapted to living in a dry habitat.
Xertz - 快速贪婪地吞咽 (kuàisù tānlán de tūnyàn) - To gulp down quickly and greedily.
Yonderly - 精神或情感上的疏远; 心不在焉 (jīngshén huò qínggǎn shàng de shūyuǎn; xīn bù zàiyān) - Mentally or emotionally distant; absent-minded.
Zephyr - 和风 (hé fēng) - A soft, gentle breeze.
Zetetic - 探究或调查 (tànjiù huò diàochá) - Proceeding by inquiry or investigation.
Zugzwang - 必须移动,但不利 (bìxū yídòng, dàn bùlì) - A situation in which the obligation to make a move in one's turn is a serious disadvantage.
Ailurophobia - 恐猫症 (kǒng māo zhèng) - Fear of cats.
Cacophony - 刺耳的声音 (cì'ěr de shēngyīn) - A harsh, discordant mixture of sounds.
Bloviate - 冗长而空洞的言论 (rǒngcháng ér kōngdòng de yánlùn) - To speak or write verbosely and windily.
Discombobulate - 使困惑或不安 (shǐ kùnhuò huò bù'ān) - To confuse or disconcert; upset; frustrate.
Erudite - 博学的 (bóxué de) - Having or showing great knowledge or learning.
Facetious - 滑稽的 (huájī de) - Treating serious issues with deliberately inappropriate humor.
Gobbledygook - 难以理解的言论 (nán yǐ lǐjiě de yánlùn) - Language that is meaningless or is made unintelligible by excessive use of technical terms.
Hapax legomenon - 作品中仅出现一次的词语 (zuòpǐn zhōng jǐn chūxiàn yīcì de cíyǔ) - A word or expression that is only used once in a particular author's writings.
Idiosyncrasy - 特殊癖好 (tèshū pǐhào) - A mode of behavior or way of talking peculiar to an individual.
Indefatigable - 不知疲倦的 (bù zhī píjuàn de) - Persisting tirelessly.
Juxtaposition - 并列 (bìngliè) - The fact of two things being seen or placed close together with contrasting effect.
Lagniappe - 额外的小礼物 (éwài de xiǎo lǐwù) - A small gift given to a customer by a merchant at the time of a purchase.
Mellifluous - 优美动听的 (yōuměi dòngtīng de) - Sweet or musical; pleasant to hear.
Nefarious - 邪恶的 (xié'è de) - Wicked, villainous, or criminal.
Obfuscate - 使模糊 (shǐ móhú) - To render obscure, unclear, or unintelligible.
Onomatopoeia - 拟声法 (nǐshēng fǎ) - The formation of a word from a sound associated with what is named.
Ostentatious - 炫耀的 (xuànyào de) - Characterized by vulgar or pretentious display; designed to impress or attract notice.
Palimpsest - 再次使用的书写材料 (zàicì shǐyòng de shūxiě cáiliào) - A manuscript or piece of writing material on which later writing has been superimposed on effaced earlier writing.
Paraprosdokian - 意外收场的修辞手法 (yìwài shōuchǎng de xiūcí shǒufǎ) - A figure of speech in which the latter part of a sentence or phrase is surprising or unexpected.
Penumbra - 半影 (bàn yǐng) - The partially shaded outer region of the shadow cast by an opaque object.
Petrichor - 雨后泥土的清香 (yǔ hòu nítǔ de qīngxiāng) - A pleasant smell that frequently accompanies the first rain after a long period of warm, dry weather.
Pluviophile - 爱雨者 (ài yǔ zhě) - A lover of rain; someone who finds joy and peace of mind during rainy days.
Quintessential - 精华的 (jīnghuá de) - Representing the most perfect or typical example of a quality or class.
Quixotic - 不切实际的 (bù qièshíjì de) - Exceedingly idealistic; unrealistic and impractical.
Recalcitrant - 反抗的 (fǎnkàng de) - Having an obstinately uncooperative attitude towards authority or discipline.
Serendipity - 机缘巧合 (jīyuán qiǎohé) - The occurrence and development of events by chance in a happy or beneficial way.
Susurrus - 低语声 (dīyǔ shēng) - Whispering, murmuring, or rustling.
Tenebrous - 昏暗的 (hūn'àn de) - Dark, shadowy, or obscure.
Tintinnabulation - 钟声 (zhōng shēng) - The ringing or sounding of bells.
Ubiquitous - 无所不在的 (wúsuǒbùzài de) - Present, appearing, or found everywhere.
Uhtceare - 黎明前醒来并担忧的时刻 (lí míng qián xǐng lái bìng dānyōu de shíkè) - The act of lying awake before dawn and worrying.
Unputdownable - 令人着迷的 (lìng rén zháomí de) - So captivating or engrossing as to compel reading.
Vellichor - 旧书店散发的神秘愁绪 (jiù shū diàn sàn fā de shénmì chóu xù) - The strange wistfulness of used bookstores, which are filled with thousands of old books you’ll never have time to read, each of which is itself locked in its own era, bound and dated and papered over like an old room the author abandoned years ago, a hidden annex littered with thoughts left just as they were on the day they were captured.
Welter - 一团糟 (yī tuán zāo) - A confused mass or jumble.

Algorithm
Artificial Intelligence
Augmented Reality
Blockchain
Biotechnology
Cryptocurrency
Cybersecurity
Data Mining
Digitalization
Encryption
Quantum Computing
Nanotechnology
Robotics
Virtual Reality
Machine Learning
Internet of Things
Big Data
Cloud Computing
Autonomous
Biometrics
Genomics
Telecommunications
Aerospace
Astrophysics
Bioinformatics
Cybernetics
Quantum Mechanics
Semiconductor
Supercomputing
Biomechanics
Nanomedicine
Photonics
Electrodynamics
Thermodynamics
Geoinformatics
Neuroinformatics
Bioprocessing
Aerodynamics
Neuroimaging
Epidemiology
Radiomics
Pharmacogenomics
Neuroprosthetics
Biophotonics
Quantum Biology
Nanofabrication
Neuroengineering
Astrophotography
Cryogenics
Bionics
Nanobiotechnology
Quantum Chemistry
Neuropharmacology
Bioremediation
Bioinformatics
Nanoparticles
Genomic Medicine
Quantum Optics
Neuromarketing
Biogeochemistry
Nanosensors
Biopolymers
Quantum Information
Neuroinformatics
Astrodynamics
Neuroethology
Biomedical Engineering
Computational Biology
Nanocomposites
Quantum Entanglement
Nanoelectronics
Biostatistics
Neurogenetics
Astrobiology
Quantum Field Theory
Nanomanipulation
Biorobotics
Quantum Cryptography
Neurotechnology
Nanobiophysics
Bioelectromagnetics
Quantum Mechanics
Neuroinformatics
Biocomputing
Nanotoxicology
Biomechatronics
Quantum Algorithms
Biocatalysis
Neurophysiology
Astrometry
Nanofluidics
Neurocomputing
Bioelectronics
Quantum Teleportation
Neurosurgery
Biodevices
Nanophotonics
Neurochemistry
Astrogeology
Quantum Gravity

Sonder (English) - The realization that each passerby has a life as vivid and complex as your own.
Mamihlapinatapai (Yaghan) - A look shared by two people, each wishing that the other would initiate something that they both desire but which neither wants to begin.
Fernweh (German) - A longing for far-off places; the craving for travel.
Jayus (Indonesian) - A joke so poorly told and so unfunny that one cannot help but laugh.
Komorebi (Japanese) - The sunlight that filters through the leaves of trees.
Saudade (Portuguese) - A deep emotional state of nostalgic or profound melancholic longing for an absent something or someone that one cares for and/or loves.
Iktsuarpok (Inuit) - The feeling of anticipation that leads you to keep looking outside to see if anyone is coming.
Gumusservi (Turkish) - Moonlight shining on water.
Tsundoku (Japanese) - The act of acquiring books and not reading them.
Sobremesa (Spanish) - The time spent around the table after a meal, talking to the people you shared the meal with; lingering conversation and relaxation.
Nunchi (Korean) - The subtle art of gauging other people's moods or feelings in order to build better relationships.
Schadenfreude (German) - Pleasure derived by someone from another person's misfortune.
Waldeinsamkeit (German) - The feeling of being alone in the woods.
Torschlusspanik (German) - The fear of diminishing opportunities as one ages.
L'appel du vide (French) - The inexplicable urge to jump from a high place.
Tartle (Scottish) - The act of hesitating while introducing someone because you've forgotten their name.
Saudade (Portuguese) - A nostalgic longing to be near again to something or someone that is distant, or that has been loved and then lost; "the love that remains".
Meraki (Greek) - Doing something with soul, creativity, or love; when you leave a piece of yourself in your work.
Duende (Spanish) - The mysterious power of art to deeply move a person.
Pana po'o (Hawaiian) - To scratch your head in order to help you remember something you've forgotten.
Ikigai (Japanese) - A reason for being; the thing that gets you up in the morning.
Fernweh (German) - A craving for travel; being homesick for places you've never been.
Gigil (Filipino) - The urge to pinch or squeeze something that is irresistibly cute.
Hiraeth (Welsh) - A homesickness for a home to which you cannot return, a home which maybe never was; the nostalgia, the yearning, the grief for the lost places of your past.
Firgun (Hebrew) - The act of sharing in or even contributing to someone else's pleasure or fortune, with a purely generous heart and without jealousy.
Tingo (Pascuense) - The act of borrowing things from a friend's house, one by one, until there is nothing left.
Prozvonit (Czech) - To call a mobile phone only to have it ring once so that the other person would call back, allowing the caller not to spend money on minutes.
Duende (Spanish) - The mysterious power of art to deeply move a person.
Tarab (Arabic) - A musically induced state of ecstasy or enchantment.
Fika (Swedish) - To have coffee, usually with something sweet on the side.
Pochemuchka (Russian) - A person who asks a lot of questions.
Shemomedjamo (Georgian) - The act of eating past the point of being full just because the food is delicious.
Toska (Russian) - A sensation of great spiritual anguish, often without any specific cause; a longing with nothing to long for, a sick pining, a vague restlessness, mental throes, yearning.
Wabi-sabi (Japanese) - A way of living that focuses on finding beauty within the imperfections of life and accepting peacefully the natural cycle of growth and decay.
Pochemuchka (Russian) - A person who asks a lot of questions.
Tsundoku (Japanese) - The act of acquiring books and not reading them.
Tartle (Scottish) - The act of hesitating while introducing someone because you've forgotten their name.
Gumusservi (Turkish) - Moonlight shining on water.
Iktsuarpok (Inuit) - The feeling of anticipation that leads you to keep looking outside to see if anyone is coming.
Mamihlapinatapai (Yaghan) - A look shared by two people, each wishing that the other would initiate something that they both desire but which neither wants to begin.
Nunchi (Korean) - The subtle art of gauging other people's moods or feelings in order to build better relationships.
Schadenfreude (German) - Pleasure derived by someone from another person's misfortune.
Waldeinsamkeit (German) - The feeling of being alone in the woods.
Torschlusspanik (German) - The fear of diminishing opportunities as one ages.
L'appel du vide (French) - The inexplicable urge to jump from a high place.
Sobremesa (Spanish) - The time spent around the table after a meal, talking to the people you shared the meal with; lingering conversation and relaxation.
Tsundoku (Japanese) - The act of acquiring books and not reading them.
Fernweh (German) - A longing for far-off places; the craving for travel.
Jayus (Indonesian) - A joke so poorly told and so unfunny that one cannot help but laugh.
Mamihlapinatapai (Yaghan) - A look shared by two people, each wishing that the other would initiate something that they both desire but which neither wants to begin.
Sonder (English) - The realization that each passerby has a life as vivid and complex as your own.
Meraki (Greek) - Doing something with soul, creativity, or love; when you leave a piece of yourself in your work.
Saudade (Portuguese) - A deep emotional state of nostalgic or profound melancholic longing for an absent something or someone that one cares for and/or loves.
Ikigai (Japanese) - A reason for being; the thing that gets you up in the morning.
Gumusservi (Turkish) - Moonlight shining on water.
Schadenfreude (German) - Pleasure derived by someone from another person's misfortune.
Tartle (Scottish) - The act of hesitating while introducing someone because you've forgotten their name.
Duende (Spanish) -

delisequent
paleontology
uniformitarianism
catastrophism
clairvoyance
heather
heathen
